DATA VISUALIZATION : - The use of computer-supported, interactive, visual representations of. abstract data in order to amplify cognition” by (Card, Mackinlay, & Shneiderman, 1999)
                       Data visualization is the graphical representation of information and data. 
Why Data Visualization :- Generally we do it to because our mind reads better with patterns and figures instead of numbers. 

Abelas Chart : - Dr. Andrew Abela published a good Diagram helping to decide about which chart are a better fit for a given data and problem at hand. 
                 They devide problem on the basis of 4 scenarios  ( See image for complete bifurcation )  :-
                 i) Comparison ii) Composition iii) Relationship iv) Distribution.
                 
                *Variables are columns or different factors we are measuring* 
        
        Comparison: - It is used to evaluate and compare values between two or more data points. Data point is one item for eg a product of particular brand. 
                      This if further devided into:-
                      i) Among Time    ii) Over Time 
                      There is further more bifurcation see diagram of abelas chart.
                      For the comparison we can use - Variable with column chart , Table with embeded chart , Bar chart (for many items) , column chart(for few items) , circular area chart , line chart.
        
        Composition: - The idea is to show how individual parts make up the whole by combining them together and displaying them as a sum
                      Basically it means combining the whole data. 
                      It can be devided as i)Static , ii)Dynamic (changing over time)
                      For STATIC we can use :- Pie Chart (Simple share of total) , Waterfall chart (  accumulation or subtraction of total) , Stacked 100% column chart with sub component ( components of components )
                      For dynamic we can use :- 
                      
                      *Learn further by doing *

Principles of Data Visualization :- 1) Use title and labels in chart
                                    2) Each chart should convey one message
                                    3) Use color sesible.
                                    4) Remove redundant information from chart
                                    5) Info should be legible
                                    6) Do not use more then 4-5 categories for pie chart
                                    7) Consistency with scaling ( dividing the large period into few like 10 years into 5 groups of 2 years representing 1point as 2 years ) is important.
